[IMP] surveys: improves Surveys doc (#928)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/survey.rst

After writing your question in the *Question* field, select a *Question Type.* A preview of the
question type is displayed on the right side of the pop-up window.

.. image:: survey/preview-question-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Selecting a question type in Odoo Surveys

Question types and features
---------------------------

The following is a list of the available *Question Types* and their specific features:

* **Multiple Lines Text Box** - open-text field suitable for long answers where any type of text
  is allowed

* **Single Line Text Box** - open-text field suitable for short answers where any type of text is
  allowed

* **Numerical Value** - open-text field that only accepts a number as an answer

* **Date** - date selection on a calendar

* **Datetime** - date and time selection on a calendar

* **Multiple choice: only one answer** - closed question where only one answer can be selected

* **Multiple choice: multiple answers allowed** - closed question where multiple answers can be
  selected

* **Matrix** - table of multiple choice questions that share the same possible answers

Answers and Options tab
-----------------------

> Features change in the *Answers* and *Options* tab. It all depends on the *Question Type*.
> 
> .. note::
>    Some options are common to many *Question Types*, such as *Validate entry*, *Mandatory
>    Answer*, *Question Time Limit* (for *Live Sessions*), *Conditional Display*, and *Score/Scored*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features change in the *Answers* and *Options* tab. It all depends on the *Question Type*. Below are presented options that are common to several *Question Types*, such as *Validate entry*, *Mandatory Answer*, *Question Time Limit* (for *Live Sessions*), and *Conditional Display*.
```
It didn't feel quite right to have that note, so I moved it to the main paragraph.
I removed the score/scored as it isn't described here.

> 
> Input must be an email
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> Force participants to enter an email address by ticking *Input must be an email*. That way, you
> can continue to communicate with them, even after they've completed the survey.
> 
> .. note::
>    Compatible *Question Type*: *Single Line Text Box*
> 
> Save as user nickname
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> Tick *Save as user nickname* to save their response as their username. This username is needed in
> order for them to login next time they visit the website.
> 
> .. note::
>    Compatible *Question Type*: *Single Line Text Box*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I suggest removing those very specific settings: let's just stick to describe settings common to most questions, as we can't find a good place to put that info.

> 
> Validate entry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/validate-entry:

Validate entry
```
Targetting a specific feature is probably more useful than targeting a vague title such as "Answers and Options tab"

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Entry validation lets you define requirements for single line text length, dates, and numerical
values. To do so, go to the *Answers* tab, tick *Validate entry*, and set a *Minimum* and a
*Maximum* value.

You can also customize the *Validation Error message* that appears beneath the field on the survey
if an invalid answer is entered.

> .. note::
>    Compatible *Question Types*: *Single Line Text Box*, *Numerical Value*, *Date*, *Datetime*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Available for: *Single Line Text Box*, *Numerical Value*, *Date*, and *Datetime*
```

> 
> Conditional Display

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/conditional-display:

Conditional Display
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Conditional Display* means a question is only displayed if the specified conditional answer has
been selected in a previous question.

To use that feature, go to a question's *Options* tab, activate *Conditional Display*, choose a
*Triggering Question* and select the *Triggering Answer* linked to that question. Remember,
*Triggering Questions* can only be multiple choice.

.. image:: survey/conditional-triggering-answers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Conditional triggering answer fields

.. tip::
   Save the entire survey first before selecting a triggering question to update the selection of
   triggering questions.

> .. note::
>    Compatible with **all** *Question Types*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Available for **all** *Question Types*
```

> 
> Question Time Limit (for *Live Sessions*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/question-time-limit:

Question Time Limit (for *Live Sessions*)
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Timed questions are only available during *Live Session* surveys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timed questions are only available during :ref:`survey/live-session` surveys.
```
Here you can add a `:ref:` as explained in my first comment. You will need to add the target to the Live Session section as I did further down in my review.

To put a time limit on a question, open a question's *Options* tab, tick *Question Time Limit*, and
specify a limit in seconds.

.. image:: survey/question-time-limit.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey Question Time Limit

> .. note::
>    Compatible with **all** *Question Types*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Available for **all** *Question Types*
```

Survey options
==============

Questions
---------

This section primarily focuses on the overall presentation and layout of your survey. There are
also options featuring timed and randomized surveys.

First, you select the layout. You can choose from:

* *One page with all the questions*
* *One page per section*
* *One page per question*

You can also choose how you want to display the participant's progress during the survey. It can
either be shown as a *Percentage* or a *Number* (i.e. 1 of 20 answered).

Below that, you can decide if you'd like to present your participants with a *Back Button* during
the survey. You can also decide to modify the question selection to include all answers or have
them randomized by section. You can even add a time limit, as well.

.. image:: survey/questions-setting-section.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Questions section of survey settings

> 
> Timed surveys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/timed-surveys:

Timed surveys
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With timed surveys, participants must complete the survey within a predetermined amount of time.
You can apply the same time limit feature to individual questions, as well.

Timed surveys and questions ensure that all participants get the same amount of time to answer and
complete the survey. They also discourage participants from looking up answers with external
sources.

To set a time limit on a survey, select *Survey Time Limit* under the *Options* tab of your
survey, and enter the desired time limit (in minutes).

.. image:: survey/options-tab-time-limit.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a survey form emphasizing the time limit feature in Odoo Surveys

Before participants begin, they see how much allotted time they have to complete the survey. During
the survey, a timer is shown on the pages so the user can keep track of the remaining time.

.. image:: survey/time-limit-survey-clock.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey time limit clock display front-end

.. important::
   Surveys that are not submitted in time **do not** have their answers saved.

> 
> Randomized surveys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/randomized-surveys:

Randomized surveys
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a survey is randomized, the questions are shuffled in a random order every time a participant
opens the survey. Random surveys are a great way to eliminate the possibility of participants
copying off one another.

Once you've enabled that feature, go to the *Questions* tab of the survey, where a *Random questions
count* column is now present.

Here you can decide how many of the questions should be taken into account during the shuffling, by
simply selecting the number and changing it. That number corresponds to how many questions in that
section should be randomly selected.

.. image:: survey/random-questions-count.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey random questions count

> 
> Scoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/scoring:

Scoring
```

-------

Surveys are a great way to measure a person's performance, knowledge of a subject, or overall
satisfaction.

Odoo allows you to attach points to certain answers of survey questions. These points are then
summed up to give your participant a final score.

You can choose between: *Scoring with answers at the end* **or** *Scoring without answers at the
end*.

> You can set the *Success %* here, as well. The *Success %* is the percentage the user needs to earn,
> in order to have successfully taken the survey. If *Is a Certification* is selected, you can choose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the *Success %* here, as well. The *Success %* is the percentage the user needs to earn
in order to have successfully taken the survey. If *Is a Certification* is selected, you can choose
```
Unessecary comma

its template. The certification is automatically emailed to users who have completed the survey.

.. image:: survey/survey-success-percentage.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey success percentage setting

> And, if you check the box next to *Give Badge,* you are able to select which Certification Badge
> you want to give to your participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By activating *Give Badge,* you can select a *Certification Badge* to give to your participants.
```
Sentence can be simplified.

.. important::
   The *Give Badge* feature is **only** available if you enable *Login required* in your survey's
   options.

Following those configurations, you can choose a survey question that you want to assign a point
value to, and mark which answer is "correct" on the question pop-up. You can also apply negative
point results for "incorrect" answers, as well.

.. image:: survey/answers-questions-points.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Scoring example of a question

> 
> Candidates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/candidates:

Candidates
```

----------

In this section, you can decide who can access this survey.

The *Access Mode* allows you to choose between *Anyone with the link* and *Invited people only*.
You can also decide if you want to grant access to *Appraisal Managers Only*. This person is the
one who manages the various appraisals/surveys.

You can also require participants to log in to access the survey by ticking *Login Required*.

You can limit the number of login attempts by ticking *Attempts Limit* and entering a number.

.. image:: survey/candidates-section.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Candidates section of survey settings

> 
> Live Session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _survey/live-session:

Live Session
```

=======
Surveys
=======

**Odoo Surveys** allows you to create unique, compelling, and engaging surveys.

Companies often use surveys to collect valuable information from their customers and/or
employees, which they use to make more informed business decisions.

Surveys can be used for a number of different purposes. They can be used to collect customer
feedback, evaluate the success of a recent event, measure the satisfaction of customers (and
employees), learn what the market is *really* thinking, and so much more.

With easy-to-use question building tools, variety of content options, and simple publishing, you can
start collecting invaluable data, insight, and feedback to help your business grow into the future.

Question types
--------------

After the question has been written in the "Question" field, you choose the "Question Type." A
preview of the question type is shown in this window, as well.

> .. image:: survey/survey_essentials/preview-question-type.png

Author: I do increase the size to 110%, but I agree, in some cases "more is necessary." I went ahead and improved the size to 125% and took another screenshot. Hopefully, that helps. I also changed all images to be in /survey .

* **Numerical Value** - *Validate entry*, *Correct answer* (numerical value), if the question
  should be *Scored*, and if so, you can determine what participants *Score* with a correct response

* **Date** - *Validate entry*, *Correct answer* (date), *Scored*, and *Score*

* **Datetime** - *Validate entry*, *Correct answer* (date and time), *Scored*, and *Score*

* **Multiple choice: only one answer** - *Choices* and the user selects one option as the correct
  answer

* **Multiple choice: multiple answers allowed** - *Choices* but the user can select more than one
  option as the correct answer(s)

* **Matrix** - *Choices* and *Rows*, wherein the *Rows* represent a certain question and the
  *Choices* would represent various answer options to that question

.. note::
   The *Options* tab only looks different for: *Multiple Choice (One or Multiple answers)* and
   *Matrix*. In those instances, the options are purely based on layout and answer options.

Question configuration
----------------------

You can choose to validate an entry, make an answer mandatory, or activate "Conditional Display."

.. image:: survey/survey_essentials/conditional-display.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: conditional display activated in survey settings

Author: Oh, I didn't know capitalization was necessary for the alt image text, but I'll be sure to keep that in mind going forward. Thanks for pointing that out!

"Conditional Display"
---------------------

*Conditional Display* means a question is only displayed if the specified conditional answer has
been selected in a previous question.

After activating *Conditional Display*, you need to choose a *Triggering Question*. Once done, you
should select the *Triggering Answer* linked to that question.

.. image:: survey/survey_essentials/conditional-triggering-answers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: conditional triggering answer fields

.. note::
   When you are done, remember to hit *Save & Close*, which takes you back to the survey template
   page. You can also hit *Save & New* to instantly start working on another question.

Layout
------

This section primarily focuses on the overall presentation of your survey.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add an H3 heading if you want this section to focus on the "Questions part" of the options

First, you select the layout. You can choose from:

* *One page with all the questions*
* *One page per section*
* *One page per question*

You can also choose how you want to display the participant's progress during the survey. It can
be shown as either a *Percentage* or a *Number* (i.e. 1 of 20 answered).

Below that, you can choose to put a time limit on your survey, modify the question selection to

> include all answers or have them randomized by section, and decide if you'd like to present your

Author: Yes. After you tick that box, return to the Questions tab of the survey. On the right side of each Section bar, you will now notice a number ("1"). You can select that number and enter in how many of the corresponding questions in that section will be randomized.

You can apply the same time limit feature to individual questions, as well.

Timed surveys and questions ensure that all participants get the same amount of time to answer and
complete the survey. They also discourage participants from looking up answers with external
sources.

Timed surveys
-------------

To set a time limit on a survey, go to the survey template page, go to
:menuselection:`Options Tab --> Select "Survey Time Limit"`, and enter in your desired time limit
(in minutes).

.. image:: survey/time_random/options-tab-time-limit.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a survey form emphasizing the time limit feature in Odoo Surveys

Before participants begin, they will see how much allotted time they have to complete the survey.
During the survey, a timer is shown on the pages so the user can keep track of the remaining time.

.. image:: survey/time_random/time-limit-survey-clock.png
   :align: center
   :alt: survey time limit clock display front-end

.. note::
   Surveys that are not submitted in time **do not** have their answers saved.

Timed questions (in *Live Sessions* only)
-----------------------------------------

> Timed questions are only available during Live Session surveys.

Author: I agree that an internal link to the Live Session section here would be helpful, but I'm having some trouble making it work. I have referenced [Internal Hyperlinks ](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/14.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html?highlight=internal%20link#internal-hyperlink-targets) but it still isn't working properly. Would you mind sending me an example of what the RST should look like for an internal hyperlink? I would really appreciate it. Thanks again for all the awesome feedback.

> Timed questions are only available during Live Session surveys.

Author: Hello. As requested in the Chatter of this PR (in Projects), I would like to place an internal link to the Live Session section of this doc, as you originally suggested. I would place it in this very same section of the documentation. However, if you no longer think that's a good idea, I'm happy to do without - completely your call. I trust your judgment :) Thanks again!

> Timed questions are only available during Live Session surveys.

Reviewer: I have answered your question in the review :)

summed up to give your participant a final score.

Users have the option to choose between: *Scoring with answers at the end* **or** *Scoring without
answers at the end*.

If you select either *Scoring with answers at the end* or *Scoring without answers at the end*, two
more fields appear. In which, you decide what the *Success %* is, and you can choose to make this a
certification.

.. image:: survey/survey-options-scoring.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey option template tab

You can set the *Success %* here, as well. The *Success %* is the score the user will need to
achieve in order to have successfully taken the survey.

.. image:: survey/survey-success-percentage.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey success percentage setting

If *Is a Certification* is selected, you can choose its template. The certification is automatically
emailed to users who have successfully finished the survey.

.. image:: survey/survey-certification-template-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Survey certification template setting

And, if you check the box next to *Give Badge,* you are able to select which Certification Badge
you want to give to your participants.

> .. image:: survey/survey-scoring-section.png

Author: no worries. I removed the entire image due to redundancy.

   :align: center
   :alt: Scoring section of survey settings

.. note::
   The *Give Badge* feature is **only** available if you enable *Login required* in the
   *Candidates* section of the *Options* tab of the survey detail form.

Following those configurations, you can choose a survey question that you want to assign a point
value to, and mark which answer is "correct" on the question pop-up. You can also apply negative

> point results for "incorrect" answers, as well.

Author: I actually think it works well in its current position, but if you think it would be best to relocate it, I'll be more than happy to do so. Thanks again for all this amazing feedback. It's extremely helpful.

.. image:: survey/answers-questions-points.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Answer tab of survey with questions and points

Candidates
~~~~~~~~~~

In this section, you can decide who can access this survey.

The *Access Mode* allows you to choose between *Anyone with the link* and *Invited people only*.
You can also decide if you want to grant access to *Appraisal Managers Only*. This person is the
one who manages the various appraisals/surveys.

You can also require participants to log in to access the survey.

You can limit the number of login attempts by ticking *Attempts Limit* and entering a number.

.. image:: survey/candidates-section.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Candidates section of survey settings

Live Session

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
------------
```
H3 heading
